docs/DESIGN.md, before:

# Design Document

## Overview

This document describes the key design decisions for the Broadcaster Playlist Service API.

## Client Fingerprint Transmission

### Decision: Request Body

The `clientFingerprint` is passed via **request body** for all mutation operations (insert, delete, move, sync-check).

### Alternatives Considered

| Method | Pros | Cons |
|--------|------|------|
| **Request Body** | Consistent with REST semantics for POST/DELETE with payloads; easy to document in OpenAPI; keeps all request data together | DELETE with body is less common (but valid per HTTP spec) |
| Header (`X-Client-Fingerprint`) | Works for all HTTP methods; doesn't require body for DELETE | Non-standard header; harder to discover; separates related data |
| Query Parameter | Simple; works for all methods | Exposes fingerprint in URL logs; limited length; not semantic |

### Rationale

1. **Consistency**: All mutation endpoints use the same pattern - fingerprint in the request body alongside other operation data
2. **Semantics**: The fingerprint is logically part of the operation request, not metadata
3. **Discoverability**: Request body fields are clearly documented in OpenAPI/Swagger
4. **Security**: Fingerprints don't appear in URL logs or browser history

### Implementation

**Insert** (`POST /api/channels/{channelId}/playlist/items`):
```json
{ "title": "...", "index": 0, "clientFingerprint": "..." }
```

**Delete** (`DELETE /api/channels/{channelId}/playlist/items/{itemId}`):
```json
{ "clientFingerprint": "..." }
```

**Move** (`POST /api/channels/{channelId}/playlist/items/{itemId}/move`):
```json
{ "newIndex": 5, "clientFingerprint": "..." }
```

**Sync-check** (`POST /api/channels/{channelId}/playlist/sync-check`):
```json
{ "clientFingerprint": "..." }
```

## Fingerprint Algorithm

### Decision: SHA-256 of Ordered Index:ItemId Pairs

The server fingerprint is computed as:
```
SHA-256("0:itemId0|1:itemId1|2:itemId2|...")
```

### Rationale

1. **Deterministic**: Same playlist state always produces the same fingerprint
2. **Order-sensitive**: Captures both item identity and position
3. **Collision-resistant**: SHA-256 provides sufficient uniqueness for this use case
4. **Efficient**: Linear scan of playlist items; hash computation is fast

### Empty Playlist

An empty playlist produces the SHA-256 hash of an empty string:
```
e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b855
```

## Pagination Strategy

### Decision: Offset-Based Pagination

Using simple offset/limit pagination with fingerprint staleness detection.

### Response Structure

```json
{
  "items": [],
  "page": {
    "limit": 50,
    "offset": 0,
    "nextOffset": 50,
    "hasMore": true
  },
  "totalCount": 100,
  "serverFingerprint": "abc123..."
}
```

### Tradeoffs

| Aspect | Offset Pagination | Cursor Pagination |
|--------|------------------|-------------------|
| Simplicity | Simple to implement and use | More complex |
| Mutation handling | Can skip/duplicate items if list changes | Handles mutations better |
| Random access | Supports jumping to any page | Sequential only |

### Mitigation

The `serverFingerprint` in every response allows clients to detect when the playlist has changed between page fetches. Clients can re-fetch from the beginning if needed.

## Persistence Layer

### Decision: H2 Embedded Database with Spring Data JPA

- **H2**: Embedded, file-based database for persistence across restarts
- **Spring Data JPA**: Standard ORM with declarative queries

### Data Model

```sql
CREATE TABLE playlist_items (
    id VARCHAR(36) PRIMARY KEY,
    channel_id VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
    title VARCHAR(500) NOT NULL,
    item_index INT NOT NULL
);

CREATE INDEX idx_channel_index ON playlist_items(channel_id, item_index);
CREATE INDEX idx_channel_id ON playlist_items(channel_id);
```

## Index Shifting Implementation

### Atomicity

All mutation operations (insert, delete, move) are wrapped in `@Transactional` to ensure atomicity of:
1. Fingerprint validation
2. Index shifting
3. Item creation/deletion/update

### Shifting Logic

```
INSERT at targetIndex:
  UPDATE SET index = index + 1 WHERE channelId = ? AND index >= targetIndex
  INSERT new item at targetIndex

DELETE at deletedIndex:
  DELETE item
  UPDATE SET index = index - 1 WHERE channelId = ? AND index > deletedIndex

MOVE from oldIndex to newIndex:
  If oldIndex < newIndex:
    UPDATE SET index = index - 1 WHERE channelId = ? AND index > oldIndex AND index <= newIndex
  Else if oldIndex > newIndex:
    UPDATE SET index = index + 1 WHERE channelId = ? AND index >= newIndex AND index < oldIndex
  UPDATE item SET index = newIndex
```

## API Schema Pattern

### Decision: REST with Structured Error Responses

Following REST conventions with consistent error response format:

**Standard errors** (400, 404):
```json
{ "errorCode": "ERROR_CODE", "message": "Human-readable message" }
```

**Fingerprint mismatch** (409):
```json
{ "errorCode": "PLAYLIST_FINGERPRINT_MISMATCH", "serverFingerprint": "..." }
```

### Error Codes

| HTTP Status | Error Code | Description |
|-------------|------------|-------------|
| 400 | `INVALID_PAGINATION` | Invalid offset/limit parameters |
| 400 | `INVALID_INDEX` | Index out of valid range |
| 404 | `NOT_FOUND` | Item or resource not found |
| 409 | `PLAYLIST_FINGERPRINT_MISMATCH` | Client fingerprint doesn't match server |

Commit message:

Add move playlist item functionality with index shifting and unique constraint handling
- Introduced `MoveItemRequest` and `MoveItemResponse` DTOs for move API.
- Added move item endpoint in `PlaylistController` with fingerprint validation.
- Updated service layer to handle item movement, temporary indexing, and affected index shifts with unique constraint handling.
- Enhanced repository and adapter layers to support index updating and range shifting.
- Updated design docs with details on move operations, unique constraints, and shifting logic.

docs/DESIGN.md, after:

# Design Document

## Overview

This document describes the key design decisions for the Broadcaster Playlist Service API.

## Client Fingerprint Transmission

### Decision: Request Body

The `clientFingerprint` is passed via **request body** for all mutation operations (insert, delete, move, sync-check).

### Alternatives Considered

| Method | Pros | Cons |
|--------|------|------|
| **Request Body** | Consistent with REST semantics for POST/DELETE with payloads; easy to document in OpenAPI; keeps all request data together | DELETE with body is less common (but valid per HTTP spec) |
| Header (`X-Client-Fingerprint`) | Works for all HTTP methods; doesn't require body for DELETE | Non-standard header; harder to discover; separates related data |
| Query Parameter | Simple; works for all methods | Exposes fingerprint in URL logs; limited length; not semantic |

### Rationale

1. **Consistency**: All mutation endpoints use the same pattern - fingerprint in the request body alongside other operation data
2. **Semantics**: The fingerprint is logically part of the operation request, not metadata
3. **Discoverability**: Request body fields are clearly documented in OpenAPI/Swagger
4. **Security**: Fingerprints don't appear in URL logs or browser history

### Implementation

**Insert** (`POST /api/channels/{channelId}/playlist/items`):
```json
{ "title": "...", "index": 0, "clientFingerprint": "..." }
```

**Delete** (`DELETE /api/channels/{channelId}/playlist/items/{itemId}`):
```json
{ "clientFingerprint": "..." }
```

**Move** (`POST /api/channels/{channelId}/playlist/items/{itemId}/move`):
```json
{ "newIndex": 5, "clientFingerprint": "..." }
```

**Sync-check** (`POST /api/channels/{channelId}/playlist/sync-check`):
```json
{ "clientFingerprint": "..." }
```

## Fingerprint Algorithm

### Decision: SHA-256 of Ordered Index:ItemId Pairs

The server fingerprint is computed as:
```
SHA-256("0:itemId0|1:itemId1|2:itemId2|...")
```

### Rationale

1. **Deterministic**: Same playlist state always produces the same fingerprint
2. **Order-sensitive**: Captures both item identity and position
3. **Collision-resistant**: SHA-256 provides sufficient uniqueness for this use case
4. **Efficient**: Linear scan of playlist items; hash computation is fast

### Empty Playlist

An empty playlist produces the SHA-256 hash of an empty string:
```
e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b855
```

## Pagination Strategy

### Decision: Offset-Based Pagination

Using simple offset/limit pagination with fingerprint staleness detection.

### Response Structure

```json
{
  "items": [],
  "page": {
    "limit": 50,
    "offset": 0,
    "nextOffset": 50,
    "hasMore": true
  },
  "totalCount": 100,
  "serverFingerprint": "abc123..."
}
```

### Tradeoffs

| Aspect | Offset Pagination | Cursor Pagination |
|--------|------------------|-------------------|
| Simplicity | Simple to implement and use | More complex |
| Mutation handling | Can skip/duplicate items if list changes | Handles mutations better |
| Random access | Supports jumping to any page | Sequential only |

### Mitigation

The `serverFingerprint` in every response allows clients to detect when the playlist has changed between page fetches. Clients can re-fetch from the beginning if needed.

## Persistence Layer

### Decision: H2 Embedded Database with Spring Data JPA

- **H2**: Embedded, file-based database for persistence across restarts
- **Spring Data JPA**: Standard ORM with declarative queries

### Data Model

```sql
CREATE TABLE playlist_items (
    id VARCHAR(36) PRIMARY KEY,
    channel_id VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
    title VARCHAR(500) NOT NULL,
    item_index INT NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE (channel_id, item_index)
);

CREATE INDEX idx_channel_index ON playlist_items(channel_id, item_index);
CREATE INDEX idx_channel_id ON playlist_items(channel_id);
```

The unique constraint on `(channel_id, item_index)` ensures playlist integrity by preventing duplicate indexes within a channel.

## Index Shifting Implementation

### Atomicity

All mutation operations (insert, delete, move) are wrapped in `@Transactional` to ensure atomicity of:
1. Fingerprint validation
2. Index shifting
3. Item creation/deletion/update

### Unique Constraint Handling

The database has a unique constraint on `(channel_id, item_index)` to enforce playlist integrity. This constraint can cause violations during shift operations if not handled carefully.

**Solution for Move Operations**: Use a temporary index (-1) to avoid collisions:
1. Move the item to temporary index (-1)
2. Shift affected items
3. Move the item to its final index

This three-step approach ensures no two items temporarily share the same index during the operation.

### Shifting Logic

```
INSERT at targetIndex:
  UPDATE SET index = index + 1 WHERE channelId = ? AND index >= targetIndex
  INSERT new item at targetIndex

DELETE at deletedIndex:
  DELETE item
  UPDATE SET index = index - 1 WHERE channelId = ? AND index > deletedIndex

MOVE from oldIndex to newIndex:
  UPDATE item SET index = -1  (temporary index to avoid constraint violation)
  If oldIndex < newIndex:
    UPDATE SET index = index - 1 WHERE channelId = ? AND index > oldIndex AND index <= newIndex
  Else if oldIndex > newIndex:
    UPDATE SET index = index + 1 WHERE channelId = ? AND index >= newIndex AND index < oldIndex
  UPDATE item SET index = newIndex
```

## API Schema Pattern

### Decision: REST with Structured Error Responses

Following REST conventions with consistent error response format:

**Standard errors** (400, 404):
```json
{ "errorCode": "ERROR_CODE", "message": "Human-readable message" }
```

**Fingerprint mismatch** (409):
```json
{ "errorCode": "PLAYLIST_FINGERPRINT_MISMATCH", "serverFingerprint": "..." }
```

### Error Codes

| HTTP Status | Error Code | Description |
|-------------|------------|-------------|
| 400 | `INVALID_PAGINATION` | Invalid offset/limit parameters |
| 400 | `INVALID_INDEX` | Index out of valid range |
| 404 | `NOT_FOUND` | Item or resource not found |
| 409 | `PLAYLIST_FINGERPRINT_MISMATCH` | Client fingerprint doesn't match server |
